FINAL EXAM
CPE 421- TROUBLESHOOTING OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS

	Compose a 1000 words essay about your experience in troubleshooting. No plagiarism. What are your comments on my teaching experience?

	As a computer engineering students we should be able to open the computer in order to study the parts and functions of it. Basically, computer engineering comprise of two categories first designing of hardware and second creation of software. That’s why we are studying not only the software but also the computer hardware. 

	These are the activities that I’ve experience in troubleshooting of computer systems subject: 
1.	Students are reporting to their assigned topics about troubleshooting of computer systems.
2.	Disassembly of computer.
3.	Assembly of computer.
4.	Possible causes of why the P5GC Asus or 1333 Intel did not boot to BIOS.
5.	Troubleshooting Raspberry pi model B.
6.	I research about software installation.
7.	Lastly, searching about disk partitioning concept and disk cloning concept.

	I like the idea of reporting where we can speak and explain our respective topics in front of our classmates since this is a way of showing our confidence and exposing ourselves to others. Even if I hate to report but I don’t have any choice for the sake of my grades. Like duh!! I’m just kind of a shy person. Also, through reporting I learned a lot from the reports of my classmates of how to troubleshoot the mouse, keyboards, motherboard, RAM, expansion cards, processor and etc. They also discussed how to maintain, clean or the maintenance of each component. Like for keyboard used compressed air or small hand-held vacuum cleaner with brush for cleaning, mouse used glass cleaner and soft cloth for cleaning and others.
	Honestly, I would like to try how to disassemble the computer. The problem is that I don’t know where to start and how to start. There’s what if’s in my mind and couldn’t control it. What if I wrongly pull out the component? Then, I am the reason why the computer is damage?  But luckily, when we are going to disassemble the functional computer there are higher years in our room and they are able to assist us of how to disassemble it. And I, myself was there and saw it clearly of how they disassembled the other component of the computer like RAM, the CPU fan, cards, and others. Of course, they unscrewed first the screws to open the computer and after that they clean with brush and wipe with clean cloth. And yes, I saw it clearly but I could not memorize it. Sorry. After we disassemble the computer and cleaning it, we the students are carefully trying to assemble the computer. Connect all cords that are needed. Connects the power supply cables and check it correctly to avoid malfunction. And run the computer if it is working or not. At first, the P5GC ASUS or 1333 Intel the computer that we were used to disassembled did not Boot to BIOS. That time my heart beats fast because I am the one who is touching the RAM and I was thinking maybe my hand is wet that’s why it did work. But someone check it or maybe the higher years I guess there was a connector that was wrongly connected. And it feels like oh my God! It wasn’t me or it’s not my fault why the computer did not boot to BIOS. And expectedly the computer or the 1333 Intel computer run again. That time we are task to research the possible causes of why the 1333 Intel computer did boot to BIOS.
	And the next thing is we are task to troubleshoot the Raspberry pi model B of why it won’t turn it ON which was owned by our instructor Engr. Perin. Hahaha! Well, the possible reason why the Raspberry Pi B didn’t turn on when our classmate turn it ON is that the adaptor used as the supply for power on the system is not compatible with the device. The adaptor might not be supplying the required voltage and current that the device need. Because the red LED light is ON, it means that it has a problem on the power. Therefore, when troubleshooting any system, may it be a microcomputer or the normal computer. We should identify the possible problems before concluding that the device itself is no longer working. The problem might lie on the other parts that can be easily resolved. 
	Our last topic is all about Advanced PC Software Configuration Troubleshooting and Recovery. And since, we are running out of time our instructor assign each one of us to do a research of our assigned topics. My assign topics are all about Software Installation including software compatibility, hardware requirements, software updates and service packs, uninstalling software and manual removal of installed software. And my second and last task for final is to do a research about disk partitioning concept and disk cloning concept. The difference between disk partitioning and disk cloning is that disk partitioning or disk slicing is the creation of one or more regions on secondary storage, so that each region can be managed separately. These regions are called partitions. It is typically the first step of preparing a newly installed disk, before any file system is created, while disk cloning is the act of copying the contents of a computer’s hard drive. The contents are typically saved as a disk image file and transferred to a storage medium, which could be another computer’s hard drive or removable media such as a DVD or a USB drive. 
	It’s hard to say about what are my comments of how you teach us because so far, it reaches all my expectations of this subject. Like teaching us how to troubleshoot the computer and the contents or the topics inside Advanced PC Software Configuration Troubleshooting and Recovery are very useful for engineering students. The only problem is that we are running out of time maybe if we have much time to tackle this topic. I should say it is amazing and productive. I know that you are doing your best in order to share your knowledge about this subject. Even if you are first timer to teach this subject you are doing great and good job. GOD BLESSES YOU. Hope to see you next semester.



